HAWKER HUNTER GA11 - PILOT'S NOTES 

BACKGROUND 

The Hunter GA11 was an operational training aircraft operated by the 
Royal Navy from the early 1960's to the mid 1990s. More information can 
be found here: http://www.fradu-hunters.co.uk/index.html or here: 
http://www.thunder-and-lightnings.co.uk/hunter/survivors.html . 
The Royal Navy's GA11s were converted from surplus Royal Air Force F4s, 
and were given the distinctive saw-tooth wing leading edge of the F6 
while retaining the lower-powered Rolls Royce Avon RA 7 giving about 
7500lbs of thrust. The gun pack was removed, and an arrestor hook added 
(for airfield use only - the GA11 was not capable of carrier 
operations). This is the aircraft modelled. 

FDM 

Currently YASIM only. 

CONTROLS 

The following additional keyboard controls have been implemented: 
 [/]: extend/retract flaps in 10 degree steps. 
 F/f: canopy open/close 
 O/o: hook extend/retract - operational - but there is no catapult lauch mechanism -
if you land on a carrier, you can't take off again.
 CTRL F: emergency flap lowering. Operation of this control gives 
a once-only lowering of the flaps to maximum. It disables the 
normal flap extension, and cannot be reversed. 
 CTRL B: toggle speed brake is implemented, and is interlocked 
with the undercarriage so that it cannot be extended while the 
latter is down. The reverse is not true (yet). There are 2 
warning lights on the port instrument panel indicating the 
interaction of these 2 items. 

OPERATION 

Start-up. 

The model starts with engine running at ground idle, and with brakes 
ON. 

Take-off. 

Select 10 deg flap. Maximum take off power is 7950 rpm. (NOTE: the RPM 
instrument is of the clock type showing true RPM NOT %n1.) The model 
will swing to port as it accelerates. Use differential braking (,/.) to 
keep straight until about 100kts IAS when there is sufficient rudder 
authority. Rotate gently at about 150kts IAS. 

	WARNING: there is a lot of aircraft behind the main wheels, and 
	it is	easy to impact the runway with the tail bumper. 

Flight. 

Pitch trim is heavily affected by power settings. You will need to 
adjust pitch trim constantly. The model is unstable in roll, and cannot 
be trimmed hands-off. Use the wing leveller. 

Landing. 

	Approach: 
		Glide slope 3 degs 
		Speed: 140 kts IAS 
		AOA: +3 degs 
		Flap: full 

	Touchdown: 
	
		Speed: 130 kts IAS 
		AoA +15 degs 
		Vertical Speed -0.5 - -1.0 fps 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 

Thanks are due to: 
	David Cooper who helped build the aircraft (the original, not the 
	model), 
	Colin Newnes who flew the aircraft, and whose memory has been stretched 
	to recall some obscure details, 
	Lee Elliott some of whose Seahawk model has found its way into this 
	one, and 
	Jim Wilson, whose P51d instruments formed the basis of some of the 
	Hunter instruments. 

